USF-1132: Storefront Implementation Guide (#73)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/implementation/setup/content-delivery-network.mdx

 
    if (req.url.path !~ "\.plain\.html$") {
        unset resp.http.X-Robots-Tag;
    }
}
```

## Optional configuration

The following are optional configurations that can be added to the VCL snippets to handle specific use cases.

### URL rewrites

Be aware that URLs in Edge Delivery Services may only contain a-z, 0-9, and the dash (`-`) character (see [Document naming](https://www.aem.live/docs/limits#document-naming)). You may need to create a CDN rule to rewrite/remove these characters.

As an example, consider one possible case where this applies with login referrer links. Luma may redirect to a page like `/login/referrer/<base64string>`. If the login page is implemented in Edge Delivery Services (with a Luma Bridge) and the base 64 string contains unsupported characters, this page will 404. Since the base64 part is only needed on the Edge Delivery Services client side to handle redirecting after a successful sign-in, this could be stripped for the request to the Edge Delivery Services backend.

:::note
The exact cases where this needs to be performed, and the steps required, depend on the implementation of the Luma Bridge as well as customizations of Adobe Commerce.
:::

> ### Proxy RUM through the origin to avoid a TLS to rum service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Proxy RUM through the origin to avoid a TLS handshake
```

API Mesh has a header size limit. We may need to remove third-party cookies if using API mesh:

Header size limit. We need to remove custom cookies. Add this in the graphql section of `recv` snippetå:

```txt
if (req.http.Cookie) {
        # Remove all 3rd-party cookies
        # API Mesh has a header size limit
        set req.http.Cookie = ";" + req.http.Cookie;
        set req.http.Cookie = regsuball(req.http.Cookie, "; +", ";");
        set req.http.Cookie = regsuball(req.http.Cookie, ";(PHPSESSID|X-Magento-Vary|form_key|private_content_version|mage-messages|persistent_shopping_cart|fastly_geo_store)=", "; \\1=");
        set req.http.Cookie = regsuball(req.http.Cookie, ";[^ ][^;]*", "");
        set req.http.Cookie = regsuball(req.http.Cookie, "^[; ]+|[; ]+$", "");
        if (req.http.cookie ~ "^\\s*$") {
            unset req.http.cookie;
        }
    }
```

### Branch names on staging

You can enable using Edge Delivery Services branches on a staging URL (for example, `branch1.my-staging.com`). Use regex to get the domain name with this addition to the `miss` snippet:

```txt
if (req.backend == F_edge) {
    if (req.http.Host ~ "^([^.]+)\\.([^.]+)\\.lovesac\\.com$") {

>         set bereq.http.Host = re.group.1 + "--your-eds-url.hlx.page";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        set bereq.http.Host = re.group.1 + "--your-eds-url.aem.page";
```

    } else {

>         set bereq.http.Host = "your-eds-url.hlx.live";

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        set bereq.http.Host = "your-eds-url.aem.live";
```

---
title: Content delivery network (CDN) setup
description: Learn how to configure a CDN for your Adobe Commerce on Edge Delivery Services storefront project.
---

import { Tabs, TabItem, Steps } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';
import Task from '@components/Task.astro';
import Tasks from '@components/Tasks.astro';

Decide early which CDN to use. A popular option is Fastly, which is included with your Adobe Commerce license.

This page provides instructions and guidance for configuring Adobe Commerce with Fastly. It focuses on routing use cases, configuration, validation, and debugging.

## Routing

> The main difference between the three use cases described in this section is the “default” routing logic; whether by default all paths are routed to Commerce or Edge Delivery Services. If you plan to use Edge Delivery Services for your homepage only, it makes more sense to default all paths to the Commerce origin. If you plan to migrate parts of your storefront over time with an eventual goal of being entirely served by Edge Delivery Services, then defaulting to Edge Delivery Services origins is more sensible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The main difference between the use cases described in this section is whether all paths should be routed by default to Commerce or Edge Delivery Services. If you plan to use Edge Delivery Services only for your homepage, all paths should default to Commerce. However, if you plan to migrate parts of your storefront over time, the Edge Delivery Services origins are more sensible.
```

Defaulting to Edge Delivery Services is generally ideal because you'll have to log in to the Commerce Admin and understand Fastly VCLs to add the path for routing in the “default to Commerce” scenario when adding a new page in Edge Delivery Services. Therefore, the VCL snippets below focus on the “default to Edge” use case.

The following table provides a high-level comparison of the three routing options:

| Topic                          | Full storefront                              | Luma Bridge                                            | Homepage only                                                 |
|--------------------------------|----------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Routing logic**              | Default to Edge Delivery Services            | Default to Edge Delivery Services                      | Default to Commerce                                           |

> | **Paths routed to Commerce**   | Product images, GraphQL endpoint             | Transactional pages, account page, REST endpoints, etc | All paths except those explicitly                             |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| **Paths routed to Commerce**   | Product images, GraphQL endpoints             | Transactional pages, account page, REST endpoints, etc | All paths except those explicitly                             |
```

| **VCL snippets focus**         | Default to Edge Delivery Services            | Default to Edge Delivery Services                      | Default to Commerce                                           |
| **Optimization tips**          | Avoid additional TLS handshake for API calls | Same as full storefront                                | Route resources (JS, CSS) to Edge Delivery Services           |
| **Common patterns**            | Use CDN as proxy for Catalog Service         | Same as full storefront                                | Move Edge code to subfolder, such as `aem`                    |

:::note
All paths for the Adobe Commerce Admin should be routed to Commerce.
:::

### Full storefront

The entire storefront experience is delivered by Edge Delivery Services. Only some paths (for example, images and API calls) are routed to Commerce.

* By default, paths are routed to Edge Delivery Services
* Product images must be routed to Commerce
* Commerce GraphQL endpoint must be routed to Commerce

> * CDN must proxy requests to your Catalog Service API endpoint (https://catalog-service.adobe.io/graphql and https://catalog-service-sandbox.adobe.io/graphql).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* CDN must proxy requests to your Catalog Service API endpoints (https://catalog-service.adobe.io/graphql and https://catalog-service-sandbox.adobe.io/graphql).
```

  :::tip
  These API endpoints impact largest contentful paint (LCP), so we want to avoid an additional TLS handshake. This optimization has already been [applied](https://github.com/hlxsites/aem-boilerplate-commerce/blob/develop/blocks/product-list-page/product-list-page.js#L15) to the boilerplate, where we use a "custom" version of the Live Search widget to change the API URL used by the widget.
  :::

### Luma Bridge

The product catalog and content pages are delivered by Edge Delivery Services. Transactional pages (for example, cart, checkout, and account) are delivered by Commerce.

> * Includes the same details as the full storefront option, plus the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Luma Bridge includes the same details as the full storefront option, plus the following:
```

>   * Transactional pages (for example, cart, checkout, and account) are routed to Commerce, depending on the Luma Bridge implementation

Reviewer 3: I think "are routed" should be changed to "can be routed", but IDK the details here

>   * Any additional endpoints (eg. REST endpoints, `/customer/sections/load`) that are required by the Luma Bridge implementation are routed to Commerce

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  * Any additional endpoints (such REST endpoints, `/customer/sections/load`) that are required by the Luma Bridge implementation are routed to Commerce
```

I don't know what `customer/sections/load` means or why it's in code formatting.

   }
```

Then, in your custom `recv` snippet:

```txt
if (req.http.try-alt-origin) {
    set req.backend = F_commerce;
    set req.http.x-commerce = "true";
    set req.http.restarts = req.restarts; # Use restart value for vary key
    set req.http.Fastly-Force-Shield = "1";
}
```

Factly-Force-Shield may be required to turn on clustering (not related to shielding despite the name).

Flow of EDS request: In `recv`, hits Edge Delivery Services case, then goes to `miss`, then goes to `fetch`, `fetch` returns 404 and sets retry (as snippet above), and `deliver` calls `restart`.

If we are using Fastly shielding, we need to have `fastly.ff.visits_this_service == 0` in the `deliver` snippet, before `restart`, otherwise it can be that ESI doesn't work.

```txt
if (fastly.ff.visits_this_service == 0 && !req.http.try-alt-origin && resp.http.do_failover == "yes") {
    set req.http.try-alt-origin = "1";
    set req.url = req.http.Magento-Original-URL;
    return (restart);
}
```

It is not recommended to handle all paths that need to be routed to Luma like this, but still hardcode those that are known, in order to reduce load of 404s on Edge Delivery Services.

### API Mesh

> API Mesh has a header size limit. We may need to remove third-party cookies if using API mesh:

Reviewer 3: I question the use of "we" in this section.

Header size limit. We need to remove custom cookies. Add this in the graphql section of `recv` snippetå:

```txt
if (req.http.Cookie) {
        # Remove all 3rd-party cookies
        # API Mesh has a header size limit
        set req.http.Cookie = ";" + req.http.Cookie;
        set req.http.Cookie = regsuball(req.http.Cookie, "; +", ";");
        set req.http.Cookie = regsuball(req.http.Cookie, ";(PHPSESSID|X-Magento-Vary|form_key|private_content_version|mage-messages|persistent_shopping_cart|fastly_geo_store)=", "; \\1=");
        set req.http.Cookie = regsuball(req.http.Cookie, ";[^ ][^;]*", "");
        set req.http.Cookie = regsuball(req.http.Cookie, "^[; ]+|[; ]+$", "");
        if (req.http.cookie ~ "^\\s*$") {
            unset req.http.cookie;
        }
    }
```

### Branch names on staging

> You can enable using Edge Delivery Services branches on a staging URL (for example, `branch1.my-staging.com`). Use regex to get the domain name with this addition to the `miss` snippet:

Reviewer 3: enable the use of/ The opening sentence is hard to parse.

```txt
if (req.backend == F_edge) {
    if (req.http.Host ~ "^([^.]+)\\.([^.]+)\\.lovesac\\.com$") {
        set bereq.http.Host = re.group.1 + "--your-eds-url.aem.page";
    } else {
        set bereq.http.Host = "your-eds-url.aem.live";
    }
    set bereq.http.X-BYO-CDN-Type = "fastly";
    set bereq.http.X-Push-Invalidation = "enabled";
}
```

In the domains configuration, you must use a wildcard. Since the Commerce Admin doesn't let you do this, you must do it using the Fastly CLI (which also shows the wildcard URL in the Admin).

### Maintainance page workaround

> The maintainance page can block requests to API Mesh/GraphQL. The solution is to create a VCL snippet with low priority that comes before the maintainance check in VCL and allows GraphQL requests through. (set commerce backend and pass)

Reviewer 3: The parenthetical sentence needs work

   For example: `https://www.aemshop.net/`

1. Click **Save Config**.

</Steps>

## Edge Delivery Service configuration

To obtain a purge API token for Fastly, you must contact Adobe Commerce Customer Support.

Then, follow the instructions in [Setup push invalidation for Fastly](https://www.aem.live/docs/byo-cdn-fastly-setup#setup-push-invalidation-for-fastly). The remaining configuration described on this page is already taken care of by applying the VCL snippets above.

## Validation

To validate your CDN setup, use `curl` requests to check expected responses from the paths you have configured.

### Content encoding, surrogate key, and cache

Validate that surrogate key, cache hits, and content encoding are working as expected by requesting an Edge Delivery Services-served asset from your Commerce domain. Ensure you are checking a warm cache by making the request at least twice. The following examples are to a warmed cache.

Here is an example of validation against an Adobe staging environment:

```bash
curl -sI -H 'Fastly-Debug: 1' https://www.aemshop.net/scripts/aem.js | grep 'x-cache\|surrogate-key\|cache-control'

> content-encoding: gzip

Reviewer 3: I think the response begins here.

This comment is applicable for all the curl commands in this section. The commands and responses are in the same bash gates, without even a blank line to separate them.

1. Accept the default (`10`) in the **Priority** field

1. Click **Create**.

1. Select your new condition from the **Condition** drop-down list.

   ![Backend configuration for Commerce](@images/implementation/backend-config-example.png)

   :::caution
   Remember to also set this condition for the default Adobe Commerce backend. Otherwise, this condition can overwrite the changes made by the VCL conditions that you configure in the custom VCL snippets. You could also lose access to the Admin, which may require an Adobe Commerce Support ticket to resolve.
   :::

1. Set Shielding to **(none)**.

   If you choose to use shielding, see the [shielding section](#shielding) for additional guidance.

</Steps>

Repeat these steps for the Catalog Service GraphQL API endpoints (plus any other backends that you may require):

* `https://catalog-service.adobe.io/graphql`
* `https://catalog-service-sandbox.adobe.io/graphql`

:::tip
You can also rename the Adobe Commerce backend from the generated name to simply `commerce`.
:::

## VCL configuration

Your routing set up requires the following VCL snippets:

* `recv`
* `pass`
* `miss`
* `fetch`
* `deliver`

> ![VCL configuration](@images/implementation/vcl-config.png)

Reviewer: Be careful with this diagram as this is owned by Fastly.

Author: I'll remove it.
